Okay. Hi! What we're talking about?
Your favorite chords!
So there's no tonic?
There's no... fourth?
Okay, so it's like E over the two...
It's like...
G A, so it's a what? B
It sounds like a bass beat.
B7 Yeah, yeah B7 and then over E.
Right? Over E. So it's not like an E major chord like
that's probab...
Yeah, with the left hand. Bottom. Yeah. So, over E.
Have you ever read the um... the dunk uh do
thing about how Soc Socrates they...
He wrote about how each mode and each key like has a different kind of
characters. Yeah... Of course he have.
Oh, interesting.
I don't know. I think we have to Google it.
famous one.
heroic. sharp.
Yeah.
Because there was there was like somebody's symphony huh. heroic
can't fake 'em heroic
Yeah. mmh.
Yes.
mmh
Yeah, yeah, that's probably what it's based off of.
Okay, interesting.
mmh
How would you, how would you explain a mode?
So it's like you play a C major.
scale but you can start on any note but you have to play it in
with the accidentals of C major. Is that right?
key yeah.
within the pattern of the C major.
Right, but it has to keep a certain like harmonic.
like relationship between the notes.
Yeah.
It's like F sharp D Dorian is D. D Major, right?
Yeah, that got F sharp and C sharp. Right?
That's two sharps, right?
See, that  see that's why I I know. Yeah.
So, Yeah. I don't.
So I always like when my students ask me like what modes are I'm like, mmh...
Let's just focus on this one. You have to play. This is C major. We call it Ionian.
Yeah.
Yeah, so like jazz people.
so like it always like confuses me like how
like Jazzers, like think about it that way.
Like I- I really don't understand like how Jazzer's like minds work.
They'd be like, oh, you just play it from this note in like Dorian. I was like...
Yeah. I like...
Have you guys ever heard um Jason. Jacob Collier? um
talk about music theory.
Jacob Collier is like this like just this prodigy and just this
person that like hears harmony in this like
very complex way like I don't even know how to like describe him. I can't describe him.
Harm... Yeah, he's like really amazing at harmonizing things.
So he does this thing where like he'll have...
um like, I think it was during the pandemic.
like he would take a, a video of someone singing and he would harmonize it and his like
it is his... Yeah, it's like theory.
Well, it's not his theory, but it's just like music theory and he would just...
create these amazing harmonies and he'd like
with nine of himself singing all the notes. You know.
He got really...